Add RebootPending and WindowsPowerShell reference documentation (#857)
PowerShell/DSC: docs/reference/resources/Microsoft/Windows/RebootPending/index.md

---
description: Microsoft.Windows/RebootPending resource reference documentation
ms.date:     03/25/2025
ms.topic:    reference
title:       Microsoft.Windows/RebootPending
---

# Microsoft.Windows/RebootPending

## Synopsis

Checks if a Windows system has a pending reboot.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The `Microsoft.Windows/RebootPending` resource are a proof-of-concept example
> for use with DSC. Don't use it in production.

## Metadata

```yaml
Version    : 0.1.0
Kind       : resource
Tags       : [Windows]
Author     : Microsoft
```

## Instance definition syntax

```yaml
resources:
  - name: <instance name>
    type: Microsoft.Windows/RebootPending
    properties: {}
```

## Description

The `Microsoft.Windows/RebootPending` resource enables you to check whether a Windows system has a pending reboot. The resource can determine if a system reboot is required due to:

- Windows Updates
- Component-Based Servicing
- Pending file rename operations
- Pending computer rename

> - Pending domain join operations

Reviewer: I wonder whether it's worth indicating that the resource doesn't tell you _which_ of these reasons is causing a pending reboot, only that one of them is.

> [!NOTE]
> This resource is installed with DSC itself on Windows systems.
>
> You can update this resource by updating DSC. When you update DSC, the updated version of this
> resource is automatically available.

## Requirements

- The resource is only usable on a Windows system.
- The resource must run in a process context that has permissions to query the system for reboot status.

## Capabilities

The resource has the following capabilities:

- `get` - You can use the resource to retrieve the pending reboot status of a system.

> This resource does not support `set`, `whatIf`, `export`, `test`, or `delete` operations. For more information about resource capabilities, see [DSC resource capabilities][02].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This resource doesn't implement the **Set**, **WhatIf**, **Export**, **Delete**, or **Test**
capabilities. You can't use this resource to enforce or export configurations.

Note that even though this resource doesn't implement **Test**, you can still invoke the test
operation against this resource. This resource relies on the synthetic testing provided by DSC.

For more information about resource capabilities, see [DSC resource capabilities][02].
```
